So now that we added a lot of functionality to successfully pick a location,
let's now pick an image. For this,
we're going to use another external library, react native image picker. We can click on that to visit to
github repository,
as always a good place to learn more about this library and how to configure and how to use it and for
troubleshooting and so on.
Now what this will do is it will give us this convenient action menu from the bottom where we can then
either access our local photo library or take a new photo.
First of all, we need to install it
so that's from npm install --save react-native-image-picker,
this will download it and add it to the project
but since this will also connect to native device features, we as always also need to add it to Xcode and
to Android. Detailed installation instructions can always be found here on the github page,
there we see first of all, we add our library, this new library so we click on libraries, add files and
then we go into the node modules folder of course project, search for react native image picker there,
go to iOS and pick the Xcode project we find there,
click add then we click onto our project name, build phases, link binary with libraries,
click on the plus, filter for image and you should find the librn image picker package,
click on add and then we already finished the first three steps.
Now we also need to make our application aware of certain permissions we will need and provide certain
descriptions, so texts that will be displayed to the user when this permission is needed.
Now I'm not interested in getting access to the microphone but I want to get access to the photo library and
the camera,
so these two permissions need to be grabbbed.
For this, let's go to the info plist file and then you can just grab these keys you see here in the
documentation, ns photo library usage description,
add a new row in the plist, enter this and it will be auto-completed to privacy
photo library usage description and then let's simply add some description that makes sense, like who wants
to share an image right,
well not the best description maybe,
pick one that makes sense for your application.
So let's also add the second description here, that is where we don't want to get access to the photo
library which we just added
but to the camera, let's take a photo, so this is just text that gets displayed to the user and should convince
him to give you access.
That's actually it for iOS, now for Android,
the steps also are pretty similar to the ones you already know.
First we go to Android settings gradle, so in the Android folder, it's not in the app folder but in the
main Android folder, settings gradle and at the end you add the two lines you just copied from the github repository
for including and then adding this here, react native image picker,
then we need to add it to dependencies in Android build gradle, so here we're talking about this file,
not the one in the app subfolder but the one in the Android folder itself.
There should be a build script part where you add this to dependencies,
so let's have a look,
build script dependencies here, below this, maybe let's add classpath and then this one, though here we
already have one so let's comment out this version and use this instead which should use the latest one
and then we need to update the gradle version to 2.14.1 in Android gradle wrapper gradle wrapper properties,
so that's a long thing.
Let's go to Android gradle wrapper and there it's the gradle wrapper properties file,
this one, the distribution url which we have here should be services gradle and so on, just copy that
and replace the existing one with it,
though here I believe it was the same one, just to be so sure,
let's use this one. Then let's add this line to dependencies in Android app build gradle,
so in the other build gradle file we have in the app folder and there, we get this build gradle file,
at the bottom
let's add the compilation step for react native image picker here
and then as a next step, let's add permissions to Android too to be able to save the image to get access
to the camera and so on.
For that I'll go to the Android manifest file and I'll add them here below my other permissions
and finally we need to add an import to main application Java so
let's copy that import path,
go to main application Java and add it at the top and then you just need to add the new image picker
package here,
you can also use this one if you plan on customizing the dialog style, we are not doing this here though,
more instructions can be found on this github page though if you want to do that.
So here I am using the new image picker image import in the main application java
file still, here after maps package,
let's add a comma and then insert this.
Make sure to save all the files you now edited,
that's important
and thereafter, you know the game,
we probably need to uninstall our apps and completely relaunch them,
so rerun the build process because we added a new native library, so I'll quickly do that on the simulators.
We'll uninstall both,
also make sure to close the existing process and then rebuild both the android and the ios apps from scratch
and thereafter, I will rerun npm run Android to rebuild that and thereafter npm run ios to have that
too.
And once this is done, we install the library and we can then start using it in the next lecture.